Given all this talk about Paris Hilton today, I thought I'd check in on the pop diva and see just what she's been up to lately Hollywood, CA (CNS) - Paris Hilton debuted her new fall shoe collection at the Las Vegas Macy's Fashion Show on Tuesday. Paris, dressed in a soft, baby-blue gown, showed off her trendy new shoes at the event. The new collection features a wide range of footwear, everything from platform stilettos, pumps and knee-high boots to flats, t-straps, and ankle boots. Paris was inspired by the high-fashion runways in New York, London, Paris and Milan. The shoes mix "all things girly with a whole lotta rock-n-roll," according to Thevegaseye.com. Would you fancy that? The same day John McCain comes out against Barack Obama, trying to paint similar strokes between him and Hilton, as well as Britany Spears, Hilton comes out with a shoe line which, of course, is funny in itself because while John McCain is trying to paint Obama as some type of presumptious elitist, it turns out John McCain has something in common with Paris Hilton - a certain affinity for style and shoes This summer John McCain is traveling in style. He has worn a pair of $520 black leather Ferragamo shoes on every recent campaign stop  from a news conference with the Dalai Lama to a supermarket visit in Bethlehem, PA. The Calfskin loafers, with silver-tone "Gancini" buckles, are imported from Italy. In response to Barack Obama's foreign tour, McCain spent much of his energy last week emphasizing his focus on domestic issues. What better way to show his American pride than to tour the country in Italian leather? However, don't expect McCain to try on any of Hilton's shoes as John's taste is simple well above the bar for even Hilton's line. The shoe line is designed to cater to the needs of people who want to rock out in fashion, but cant afford a high fashion label. While the shoes are a far cry from a sexy pair of Minnillo Blahniks, there are still a variety of fashionable choices for under $100. Rock out, John McCain. In the words of Christopher Hayes John McCain is an insanely rich individual. He is insanely rich because he married a woman who was insanely rich, who in turn inherited that insane wealth from her parents. They own more houses than I have pairs of shoes. Seriously. They have a super fancy credit cards that they carry a $225,000 balance on. He wears expensive shoes. I'm sure his suits and ties cost a lot, too. Whatever. That is what it is. But, importantly, John McCain simply has no connection to working people on a personal level, and most likely hasn't for most of his political life. The only working class people he encounters are those who come to his campaign events, those who serve him at restaurants, and the small army no doubt employed to clean his ten houses. And, more importantly, he's the head of a political coalition that while managing to win millions of working class votes, does not have any real representatives of working America calling the shots in the party's upper echelons. His top economic adviser spent his entire career trying to stick it to the middle class and enrich the banking industry, which he later lucratively joined. Now that the very policies he pushed for helped create a massive ponzi scheme that is collapsing on the heads of the middle class he sniffs at the rubble and calls those people whiners. Whiners. Now, if John McCain's policies were crafted to aid working people, to restore some basic fairness to our economy at a time when inequality is undeniably growing, wages are stagnating and a perfect storm of disparate factors have blown lots of middle-class folks precariously close to the edge of real financial disaster, I wouldn't really care that much about the fact that marrying a rich heiress has made him fabulously wealthy. But John McCain's policies have been crafted explicitly to enrich rich people like himself: he is going to take money from the government and put it in his wife's bank account, and I mean that quite literally. (Look at this chart, via Matt Y) This has been the signature Bush/Norquist tax policy of the last eight years and the policy McCain wants to continue. It is upwards redistribution. It is taking from the many and giving to the few. Under his plan you get a foreclosed home, an oil rig off the local public beach and some busted keds: he gets another house, another SUV and a shiny new pair of $520 Ferragamo loafers.